[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Let's
start at the beginning.
You remember before
you were born.
>>MAREN MUTER: I do.
And the big flash that sent
me off into becoming a human.
The first time I wrote
about mitochondrial DNA,
I think I was seven.
[LAUGHS] I don't know.
I think I reside, like,
halfway here and halfway there.
>>REGINA: Between--
>>MUTER: Between the veil.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MUTER: I started humming
and followed the hum.
I followed the frequency out.
But I remember thinking,
oh, I need to go back,
because I'm going
to get in trouble.
>>REGINA: My dad would
be so mad if I die.
>>MUTER: Exactly.
Yep.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>MUTER: She was in the
shower, and I opened the door,
and I was like, Misha, you're
going to die of cancer.
And--
>>REGINA: You wanted to
take it away from her.
>>MUTER: I would have
completely taken it.
>>REGINA: That
wasn't the reaction.
>>MUTER: No.
I do believe we all
have expiration dates,
but our spirit and our
consciousness doesn't die.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MUTER: And so if
we're fighting death
and we're fighting all
of these other things,
then all we're doing in
our whole life is fighting.
>>REGINA: Right.
And so what happens when you
see someone where you know,
this is what you're
going to die from?
Every now and then,
someone comes along
that defies what it is to
be a conscious human being.
One such woman is Maren Muter.
I approached Maren
for this interview
after reading her musings from
her childhood in a book titled
"The Book of Buried Letters."
Her letters, written between
the ages of four to 17,
were profound in
their understanding
of DNA, the cosmos,
frequency, nature, and love.
She says these
streams of information
come to her from the
other side of the veil.
And now we have
her with us today.
Maren, I'm so happy.
I've interviewed you
before on my site,
but this is the first time the
Gaia audience has really had
a chance to get to know you.
And I tell everybody about you.
Now I tell everybody
about your chocolate
too, which we'll get into later.
But first of all,
Maren, welcome.
Thank you for being on the show.
And what I said was very
true, because you see life
from another perspective, from
where your consciousness lives.
>>MUTER: Yes.
That is very true.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And as a result of
it, I have to say
in reading these letters
but also your more current
writing you're going to
be publishing shortly,
and just speaking with you,
getting to know you a bit,
there's a type of refine--
and I don't mean to embarrass
you, but a refinement
and beauty that shines through
from such a place of clarity
that it's very, very
rare, which is why I said
what I said to introduce you.
So to let people get to
know you a little bit,
let's start at the beginning.
You remember before
you were born.
>>MUTER: I do.
>>REGINA: And let's
talk about that,
and then we'll get into
a bit of your childhood
in these letters.
>>MUTER: Sure.
Well, even in "The Book
of the Buried Letters,"
I talk about my
in-utero memories,
right on the inception, and
the big flash and the big bang
kind of firework that sent
me off into becoming a human,
I guess.
And throughout the
development of my body,
I was remembering different
sounds, different movements,
the tightening of
the belly, you know,
and things like that of
what my mother was doing.
But I think one of the
most interesting memories
that I have was I remembered
my mother holding me.
And I was always told my
mother didn't hold me.
So I was adopted
at birth, and I was
told that I was taken right
from the delivery room
and basically delivered
to my adoptive parents.
But there was
something saying, nope.
I know my mother, my
biological mother held me.
And years later, I
end up meeting her.
And I actually asked her--
one of the first questions
was, well, did you ever
have a chance to hold me?
She says, nobody is ever
supposed to know that.
It was a mistake from
the attending nurse.
They had just switched
shifts, and they were bringing
all the babies to the moms.
And my biological
mother was supposed
to be taken off of
the maternity ward.
But they brought me into her
for feeding, and she held me.
And then they realized what they
did, and she said, oh my gosh.
30 seconds later,
they took you away.
>>REGINA: But what was your
memory of that experience?
>>MUTER: My memory
of that experience
was the sound of her
voice, the scent.
Or it was just--
I guess it was more
energetic, and I'm
attributing different
scents and stuff like that.
But I think it was
just the energy of her,
it was so familiar in
utero, and then familiar
on the exterior as well.
But when I met her, it
was really interesting.
It was very awkward at first.
[LAUGHS] But she
made this sound.
She made this hum when she
was thinking of something.
And right then, it just
shot through my body
like, oh my gosh.
It was like the duckling imprint
sound [LAUGHS] to follow her.
It was really special.
It was really magical.
>>REGINA: Well, and it's
funny you should word--
I'm going to write this down.
It's funny you should use the
word hum, because that comes up
repeatedly in your
musings and in your book,
"The Book of Buried Letters."
So you obviously weren't that
old when you were adopted out.
You were, what?
Hours or a day?
>>MUTER: Probably hours.
I think the adoption
papers and stuff were
filed before I was even born, so
I was really adopted at birth.
And then when I
was five days old,
they moved me from Omaha,
Nebraska, to Portland, Oregon,
where I grew up.
I had an older
sister at the time,
and then after a few years,
we got more siblings.
>>REGINA: What was that
like, the transfer from
the familiarity of your natural
mother then to the adopted
family at--
well, at birth?
>>MUTER: At birth.
Well, it's really
interesting, because I
know that I'm not going to be
the only adoptive child that
has maybe abandonment
or attachment issues.
Even at birth, we
don't necessarily
recognize that that's
the cause until later,
but studies have
started to show that.
And I was colicky.
I would cry a lot.
But I think looking back--
and even at the time, I
was looking for something
that I couldn't find.
And I think that was the
hum or the familiarity
of the biological mother.
Now, my mother that I grew up
with, absolutely wonderful,
and I was very lucky to have
the family that adopted me.
But there was always
something that was missing.
There was always
something that--
>>REGINA: Beyond your reach.
>>MUTER: Yep.
Just on the other side.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MUTER: And that's
very hard, especially
because I was the only adopted
child out of the family.
Everybody else was natural.
And it's hard to describe that
or to bring that up and talk
to your parents about it, that
there's something missing.
And you want to ask
these questions, but--
>>REGINA: Well, you were
so different anyway,
as it was soon to be learned.
[LAUGHS]
>>MUTER: They were
probably like, oh my gosh.
What the heck did we adopt?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
What do we do with this one?
So you knew you were different.
I mean, you understood.
And you were
gathering information
that most people never have
access to in their lives.
They just-- we do,
but we don't know
how to access it, because you
were moved over into a place
you call the veil.
First of all, let's
talk about that space
where you gather knowledge
information and such from.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
Well, it is--
I don't know.
I think I reside, like,
halfway here and halfway there.
[LAUGHS] Pretty much.
>>REGINA: Between.
>>MUTER: Between the veil.
Yeah.
So I've learned that there's
different frequencies
that my brain can actually tune
into so that I can actually
open up information
and see infinity.
And I noticed that when I was
actually very young, probably
two or three years old.
I would start playing
around with sound,
with these hums, and different
frequencies and vibrations.
And I learned that
I could follow them.
And sometimes when I
didn't follow them,
they would just open
up and show me things.
And I could just disappear and
not have to be in this body.
>>REGINA: Well, and
you also actually
basically killed yourself
at one point with them.
So share with us what
happened when you
were trying to follow the hum.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
So I was humming at
night, and my dad's office
was on the other
side of the wall.
And normally, I would
knock three times,
and my dad would knock
three times back,
and it was this kind of--
>>REGINA: Little
good night ritual.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
Kind of game that we played.
And on this particular
night, I started humming,
and followed the hum.
I followed the
frequency out and went
into this incredibly
vast space that
had everything from geometry
to consciousness and everything
else.
And I just kept going, and I
kept going, and I kept going.
I was, like, taking
myself out beyond space.
And I could feel my
heart slowing down,
and I could feel my lungs
slowing down to just a whisper.
And you can kind of feel
gravity take over your body
and press you down.
So I was feeling that, and I
was also feeling completely
disconnected at the same time.
So I let that go.
I let my heart go.
I let my lungs go.
And I just said, meh.
>>REGINA: You were about three?
>>MUTER: I was about three.
And I got out there.
And I think my dad must
have come in to check on me.
[LAUGHS] But I
remember thinking,
oh, I need to go back, because
I'm going to get in trouble.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] My dad
will be so mad if I die.
>>MUTER: Exactly.
I didn't even think about
dying, but I was just
like, oh, I've got to get back.
So I turned around.
And it felt like-- this
was one of the only times
where I felt like I just kind
of had to pull myself back.
So there wasn't really a
thread or a rope or anything
like that.
I just say that it
was kind of like that,
like I was pulling
myself back into my body.
But that was due to the hum.
And then from then, I realized
that I can go out there
and I can come
back, and I started
practicing what I
didn't know at the time
was a transcendental meditation.
And I have been doing
that my whole life
now, since I was about three.
>>REGINA: OK.
So tell us about the
letters, because you
started them so young.
You started them at four,
so not long after this.
What prompted you to
start writing, number one?
>>MUTER: Well, I couldn't draw.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MUTER: Like, I
couldn't draw pictures,
I couldn't make
music, and I really
couldn't express what I was
seeing and experiencing.
And my older sister--
she was six years
older than I was.
So she was doing homework
and things like that,
and I would just
go into her room
and ask her what she was
doing, and kind of looked
at her letter books
and stuff like that.
And she showed me
how to spell my name.
And I was like, oh,
that was pretty cool.
That's who I am.
So then I went out to the woods
and found her hiding something.
I was up in a tree.
She didn't know I was there.
And she was hiding a
cigar box with her friend,
and it had pictures
and stuff like that.
But I was like, oh, wow.
There must be really great
candy or something in that.
So I climbed down the
tree after they left.
And literally right when
I pushed the log over
and I pulled the
little pencil box out,
it was like something
opened up, and I
knew what I was supposed to do.
And so I ran inside and I got
my mother's jar of buttons
and dumped them out
into her sewing kit,
and took the jar and a
pencil and a piece of paper,
and went up to my room.
And I went and asked
my sister and I said,
I need to know how to
spell three things.
And she said, what?
And I said, can you
spell the word dear?
And so she spelled
the word dear.
And I said, but can you
put it on a piece of paper?
And she said, yes.
And then I said, and can
you spell the word flower?
And she said, OK.
And I said, can you
spell the word lady?
And then she did.
And I believe I said thank you.
I don't know.
[LAUGHS] But I zipped right
out and went into my room
and shut the door and practiced
over and over and over again.
Dear flower lady.
And I would just trace
it until it was perfect.
>>REGINA: And that
was for purpose?
>>MUTER: That was for purpose.
>>REGINA: The flower lady.
No, I have to say, when someone
picks this book up and reads
it, first people are saying
in the chapter with the bandit
and all this and your missing
jar of letters, it's like,
is this her imagination?
What happened--
what's going on here?
Yeah, it was.
It was you.
But also the flower lady.
Let's talk about the
flower lady for a moment.
So people have contacts
when they read this book.
>>MUTER: Yep.
So the flower lady
was actually somebody
that I knew from
a previous life,
from a previous
iteration of life.
And I was writing
her my observations
of what was going
on in this life
and what I was seeing
in the world around me.
And pretty much as if I was at
camp and I was writing home.
>>REGINA: Tell us a little
bit about the flower lady,
what you remember
about her from before.
>>MUTER: Well, we
lived in the woods.
And so I know that we lived
in the woods together.
She was taken when
I was quite young.
So I must have
been an early teen,
and it was a long time
ago, because there were not
cars or anything.
I remember horses.
And we lived next to a brook.
And these men came and took her.
And this is my
memory of the ending.
And I was by the brook, kind of
in the trees or in the brush,
and I watched this, and
I just stayed there.
And I literally remember hiding
and hunkering down and not
moving for hours.
And so that-- but I
knew it was important.
There was something important
about our relationship.
Whether she was my mother
or whether I was just
living with her, I
don't know the dynamic
of that relationship.
You know, she could have
been an aunt or just
the nice witch in the woods.
I don't know.
But I remember I actually
finished that iteration of life
in that shack, and I lived
to be quite old, I believe.
>>REGINA: So you
lived in harmony
with nature in the forest and
gathering herbs and mushrooms
and flowers?
And that's how the
flower lady lived,
and she must have
taught you some of that.
>>MUTER: Yeah, she
taught me all that.
It was just such a
natural understanding
of how we can use
nature and what to make
and things like that.
And I do remember bartering.
I do remember going with
her to barter at neighbors,
like, way far away.
But I remember that.
There was something else
that was really important,
and I forgot it, so--
>>REGINA: Well, that's OK.
But what about-- did she
actually bake things?
>>MUTER: She did.
Pies.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to ask you.
Did the flower lady
really bake those pies?
>>MUTER: She really baked pies
and she really baked bread,
and I do remember that.
But I do remember vividly
the pies were something
that we bartered.
Or if somebody happened by, we
always had something to share.
And we weren't super vocal.
I mean, it's not that
we were talking a lot.
We really didn't sing a lot.
Nothing.
It was just quiet.
And I do remember that.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, so now it gives a context,
because every single letter
starting at age four, it was
addressed to the flower lady.
So you learned how to
obviously fashion other words
and write over time.
And so when you were four
is some of the first-- let
me just see what I
can find in here.
We'll pull a couple
of these stories.
And I'm going to go past
the bandit part, which
is wonderful.
It's like a bandit in the woods
and what happened with him,
but that's a little bit longer.
And go into--
OK.
"Dear Flower Lady,
I know I can fly.
I'm just not very
aerodynamic yet.
From the dandelion, me."
[LAUGHTER]
"Dear Flower Lady, I
used to actually not
like color because
everyone was always
asking me to pick my favorite.
So I picked yellow,
but I like all colors,
and I don't see
them with my eyes.
I feel them."
So here's where we're
starting to dial
into frequency, which gets much
more obvious as you get older.
So this is where you started.
So you felt compelled.
Like, after you
found these, you had
to start writing what you knew,
what you felt in the time.
>>MUTER: Yeah, I did.
First of all, I was
very awkward as a child,
because I was kind of like one
of those puppies that trips
over their ears all the time.
[LAUGHS] So people really
didn't see this side of me.
And I hid it for a long time,
because I was also dyslexic--
am dyslexic.
And so the translation
between what I wrote in here
and what people saw
publicly didn't correlate.
It didn't go together.
And so there was a lot
of miscommunications.
And people thought then I
was lying, and I wasn't.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Right.
You were just seeing
from that veil.
>>MUTER: I was just seeing--
>>REGINA: Life from
a different level.
>>MUTER: I just saw life from
such a different place that I
just--
and to communicate or to
talk with other people
was very hard for me to do.
So the real me was
writing these letters
and basically writing home.
One of the funny things
is when we were retrieving
these letters, the people
that owned my childhood house,
they were the original ones
that actually bought the house
after my family moved.
And they were
there for 30 years.
And just recently, the
house was for sale.
And I went up there
and told them.
I was like, I think I left
some stuff in the attic.
And they're like, you didn't
leave anything in the attic.
I said, really, I think
there's some letters up there.
And so I crawled up, and
the fireplace goes up,
and then you have the
eaves kind of butting up
against the fireplace.
And between there,
there's a space,
and there was letters in
there, and I pulled them out.
And then the next
day, the homeowner
said, oh, can you come back?
Because we want to hear
the story of the letters.
So we went back, and I actually
crawled up in the attic
with her, and we went on
a hunt for more letters,
and we actually ended
up finding four more.
>>REGINA: Oh, and
here's a jar with--
>>MUTER: Yeah, so this is a
jar of some of the letters.
The jar is very clean now.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MUTER: But--
>>REGINA: That's that old lid.
>>MUTER: It was caked.
Yeah.
It was caked with dirt
and things like that.
But like this one,
this particular one
is just a compilation
of a whole bunch
of thoughts that went in there.
And then everything from
drawings to writings to I
don't know what.
But [LAUGHS] it just
goes on and on and on.
And I would take--
>>REGINA: You were prolific, and
you had such neat handwriting.
>>MUTER: Depends on the time.
Each letter, even each age group
had multiple different forms--
>>REGINA: We'll just
put this over here,
because it's going to be
hard to get them back in.
>>MUTER: Sorry.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
>>MUTER: They had multiple
different handwritings
depending on what I
was writing about.
So if I was in my
doctor mode, [LAUGHS]
I would write very, very small.
And then if I was in
poetry mode, my writing--
>>REGINA: Big and loopy?
>>MUTER: Big, loopy.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>MUTER: And so that's--
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: So you were
able to touch in on all
of these different topics.
And I remember when
I was reading this,
I just thought, first of all,
the purity and sweetness of it.
But also your own
struggles, trying
to fit in a world you didn't
belong were clear there.
But there are a few
things you wrote.
We'll choose a couple here.
Here's one.
So you would have
been about seven.
"Dear Flower Lady, what happens
when the heart forgets love,
the feeling of love?
Can it know when love is there?
Will the warmth return?
Does the heart harden so
tight it's gone forever?
Please don't let me harden."
So what was happening
in the field of love
that was affecting you?
>>MUTER: At that time, I think
I had a dream of connection.
And I was seeing a lot
of connection to nature
and how humanity
harmonized with nature.
But then I was also
seeing a lot of things
on how people interacted
and treated each other.
And it seemed to me that
when people were frightened,
when people didn't
understand something,
they would shut down and close.
>>REGINA: Because
you were seeing
this energetically in people.
>>MUTER: I was just seeing it.
And I wondered at
the time, well,
if people shut down
enough, will they actually
be able to open up again?
And for me, the marriage
between humans and nature
is one in the same.
I mean, we share this frequency,
and we're weaving this tapestry
everywhere that we are.
Like, we literally can't--
I cannot remove Regina from
that chair right there,
because I can't isolate
you from your surroundings.
But if we start shutting
down, are we going
to forget how woven we are?
>>REGINA: And a lot of
society is shut down now.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And that's why this--
that's why I wanted
to ask you about it.
The very next page--
I'm only going to
read a few of these.
"When I was little, my dad
shared a piece of chocolate
with me.
I wonder sometimes when
I remember it like magic.
I always chose chocolate when I
get the chance to get a candy,
and it's always to
feel the magic again.
It's like a secret that
my dad doesn't even
know why I pick the chocolate.
But it's not the
same when we buy it.
It's not the same as
when we just go buy it.
The food of the gods is maybe
because the gods are holding me
when I hold the chocolate."
Now, this developed a lifelong
love affair with chocolate.
And you for yourself
and a handmade way,
you make chocolate that
is the food of the gods.
And I had the
privilege of having
a little piece of
that chocolate,
and I told you,
honestly, I don't
think I've ever had a
better chocolate in my life.
It's like something
in you-- why?
What was it about
you and chocolate?
And what was feeding
you at that time
in your life besides your
connection with your dad?
>>MUTER: Yeah.
Well, it was on
the Oregon coast--
and I'll never forget it-- in
a little town called Neskowin.
And they have a little
convenience store,
and we went down there.
My dad and I walked down there.
And we got a couple treats,
and about halfway back, he
opened the bag and gave me
this little piece of something
that I really hadn't
ever seen before.
And the smell was just--
at three-- I mean,
this is the wrong word,
but it was almost
orgasmic, I mean,
because everything opened up.
Every vessel in my body,
everything opened up.
And when I brought
it to my mouth,
it was like it transported me
to the other side of the veil.
I mean, it literally
opened everything.
>>REGINA: Truly the
food of the gods.
>>MUTER: It was truly
the food of the gods.
And I always wanted
that feeling.
I never wanted to be
separated from whatever
this connection is
to the other side,
because that's for
me what's harmonic,
and that's for me what
makes sense in my life,
and that's for me how I
can process and explain.
>>REGINA: Well, and also, you've
helped a great number of people
over the last couple
decades and more.
And let's bring that
together with the chocolate.
One of the people
you were helping
was toward the end of life.
And was he the CEO
of Levi Strauss?
>>MUTER: I believe
he was the CEO of--
>>REGINA: Of Levi Strauss.
He was a powerful
man, and he was dying.
And he had been exposed to
your chocolate at one point.
And you tell the rest of the
story when it was time to pass.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
So at the end of his
life, his oncologist
was a very dear friend
of mine at the time.
And I had given my friend,
the oncologist, chocolate.
And he started sharing it
with some of his patients.
And this man happened to
be one of the patients.
So on his deathbed, one
of his very last requests
was for this chocolate.
So I make a fresh batch.
I'm getting it
overnighted to him.
And literally, I
think it must have
been the last hours of his
life, he spent with his wife
and he savored the chocolate.
>>REGINA: Isn't
that amazing that he
would have had the
presence to even request it
when he was that close to
going beyond the veil, right?
>>MUTER: Yep.
So he was staying at the Ritz
Carlton in Sarasota, Florida.
And literally, the oncologist
drove it over there,
gave it to the bellman who
gave it to the wife who took it
upstairs, and that was it.
>>REGINA: And what a delicious
way for him to make that
transition.
So it really-- I mean,
it brings up a whole--
we all-- I mean, most of
us watching-- the people
watching this, our friends, also
appreciate chocolate and love
chocolate.
And it's a wonderful
world, because now we're
in an era where it's being used
so creatively in so many ways.
But it seems that once it
gets into kind of production,
factory production, it
can still be delicious,
but it's not having
that same energy
that something is handcrafted
by someone like you has.
So it took you to
the other side.
You helped him go
to the other side,
and you continue to
enjoy and practice
with your own chocolate today.
And if you're really lucky,
a person gets a piece of it.
[LAUGHTER]
So let's move there,
because that's
your frequency
and your intention
and your love going into it, and
your total sense of aesthetics
and balance.
So let's move to when
you're a little older now,
there's a situation that
happened with your sister.
And again, you were
seeing things about people
and blurting them out,
and your family probably
didn't appreciate
your observations,
which would come true from
a very young age, right?
>>MUTER: That's right.
That's right.
On this particular
instance, I believe
I think I know what
you're talking about.
>>REGINA: Well, we're
talking about your sister.
Yeah.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
So my sister used
to give me a quarter
to give her back massages.
And it was a really great way
to earn money to go buy candy.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Always candy.
>>MUTER: Always candy.
I had the biggest sweet tooth.
So she was laying in front
of the fire on this--
and it was a Sunday
morning, because I
remember my dad was watching
"Sunday Morning with Charles
Kuralt."
And I was giving her
a back rub, and there
was an ar-- there was
a region from her lower
back to her upper thighs that
didn't feel normal to me.
So pretty much, when I
would give her a massage,
I would just pretend that I was
going through her bloodstream
and things like that.
And on this day,
it was different.
It was completely different.
And I remember feeling it
just today as it was then.
And I would pause, and she
said, Maren, keep going.
And I'd be like, there's
something happening here,
and there's something different.
And then she kind
of got frustrated
and she's like, oh, forget it.
But I kept hovering
over that spot.
And it really stuck with me for
about two weeks, I would say.
And it was just in my mind.
I was like, what is wrong?
What was I feeling?
And one morning I woke up
and I was like, it's cancer.
And at this-- you don't really
know what cancer is, especially
at 11 years old.
But she was in the shower, and--
sorry.
She was in the shower,
and I opened the door
and I was like, Misha.
And she looks out
and she says, what?
I said-- and inside, first
of all, I want to say this.
I was hoping what
I was going to say
is what her response would be.
I'm rubber, you're glue.
Whatever you say bounces
off me and sticks to you,
because I would have taken it.
>>REGINA: You wanted to
take it away from her.
>>MUTER: I would have
completely taken it.
>>REGINA: But that
wasn't the reaction.
>>MUTER: No.
And she was very upset.
And I told her, I said, Misha,
you're going to die of cancer.
And she was very upset and
told me to get out, and--
>>REGINA: It ruined
your relationship.
>>MUTER: It pretty much
ruined our relationship.
It's not that we didn't
care or love for each other.
We just-- there was nothing--
>>REGINA: It was too
traumatizing for her, actually.
But what happened then?
>>MUTER: So as I
wrote in the book,
it was just in what I
called the recipe phase.
So it was just barely there.
It was just barely
getting started.
And it took a few years,
six to 10 years for it
to actually present itself.
And she was diagnosed
with ovarian cancer.
She fought it valiantly.
She would go into remission.
She did chemotherapies
and stuff like that.
But I think it was about 10
years after her diagnosis,
she passed away
from ovarian cancer.
I did get to go and say goodbye.
We rekindled and pretty
much had the opportunity
to say what we needed to
say, and to say I'm sorry.
And I got to wash her hair
and give her a back rub.
And I shared chocolate,
even though she
wasn't a big chocolate girl.
But she did get to
share some chocolate.
>>REGINA: And there's
so much loaded in this,
we could talk for hours more.
And we will.
We'll have more of these
conversations, for sure.
But let's look at it,
because as you said,
this was in the recipe phase.
Now, you and I have
talked on camera
and off camera,
you know, before.
And one thing that we were
talking about recently
is that people come in with
expiration dates, so to speak.
And you have these
potential dates
where everything lines up where
you can exit if you want to,
or you can continue on,
take good care of yourself,
and say you have the will
to go, reasons to live.
And then you have another
potential expiration date.
And yet, we fight with
everything in Western culture
to avoid our expiration
dates, and we start
fighting when we're young.
We start instilling fear in
people when they're very young.
So let's talk about
expiration dates.
And you have one
very dramatic story,
and don't let us get away
without your explaining
how disease starts.
And you see it from these early
phases, what it looks like
and what it takes to nurture
it or how it can take over us,
so to speak.
>>MUTER: OK.
I do believe we all
have expiration dates,
and there's things
that we can do
to make us more comfortable
until that expiration date.
So if we got a cancer and
we weren't necessarily going
to die of this cancer, even
if it went all the way down
to stage 4, and then we
make a miraculous recovery,
there's things that we
can do to lessen the pain,
lessen the impact of this.
But if you're not
going to die of it,
you're not going to die of it,
no matter what you're doing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MUTER: However,
if there's something
that you're going to die of,
you're going to die of it.
And this is one
of those stories.
>>REGINA: This is a wild story.
>>MUTER: This is a wild story.
>>REGINA: People will tell
their friends about it.
>>MUTER: My father,
my adoptive father,
was basically the Jack
LaLanne of Jack LaLanne's.
We ate so healthfully, and he
worked out every single day
and always went to the doctor
and monitored his heart
and monitored his cholesterol.
And I mean, for 63 years.
On February 23 at
age 63, my father
went to the swimming
pool and got in the water
and started swimming.
And got out of the water,
looked at his friend,
and basically said, time this,
of all the last words to say.
And he laid back on the pool
deck and he passed away.
But the interesting part of
the story is on February 23
at age 63, his
father passed away.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: I don't--
this is wild.
>>MUTER: And then before
then, his grandfather,
at age 63 on February
23, passed away.
>>REGINA: This is
just unbelievable.
>>MUTER: So we all have these
little mini time clocks,
and we see this scientifically.
You know, we have
different proteins.
And as our cells regenerate,
they kind of shrink.
These little tails at the
end shrink, shrink, shrink,
and then we expire.
So when we look at
expiration dates,
sometimes there's just not
much we can do about it.
We just-- actually,
all the time.
>>REGINA: When your
time's there, it's there.
>>MUTER: That's right.
And I had someone tell me, well,
Merlin lived to 200 years old.
So obviously, we
can live forever
and I said, well, let's
think about your statement
here really quickly.
If Merlin lived to 200 years
old or 250 years old, whatever,
did he live forever?
He's-- no.
[LAUGHS]
So no matter what we do,
we are an organic creature.
Our body is organic, and
it's made of the Earth.
It literally is.
Actually, more than the Earth,
it's made of the universe.
If you look at where all
the molecules were before,
they created our body.
We have a little bit of
absolutely everything.
But because we're
organic, it has to expire,
because it needs to go
back and feed basically
the ecology, the--
>>REGINA: Yeah, the ecosystem.
And in old times, you were
just put in the ground
and that happened.
>>MUTER: Exactly.
But our spirit and our
consciousness doesn't die.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MUTER: So that continues.
So we need to stop
pushing and creating
so much fear on this death.
If we learn to embrace it, and
we learn that it's OK to die,
and that we aren't going to
be forgetting how much we love
someone, and we're not going
to be forgetting our life here,
but we get a continuation
of it, then we are actually
going to be able to live.
>>REGINA: Because if
we're so afraid of death,
we're not living.
>>MUTER: We're spending
all our time, do this.
We'll gain five more years.
How do we know we're
getting five more years?
We don't.
But do this and do this
and do this and do this.
And we're pushing death
away, so we're fighting it.
And so if we're
fighting death and we're
fighting all of
these other things,
then all we're doing in
our whole life is fighting.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MUTER: And that's
not-- there's
nothing beautiful about that.
I mean, there's enough
contention without having
to push it away.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I happen to agree with
you on the whole notion
of expiration dates.
And I remember one
Vedic astrologer
was talking to me about this and
said, well, we have multiple.
It might not just be one,
but maybe two or three.
Depending on where
we are in our life,
we can choose to exit a little
earlier if we're kind of done.
Or if we have more
to do, then we
have another one waiting
that we will exit on.
And you also have
said in looking
at people from the energetic
levels that most of us
come in programmed with what
we're likely going to die from.
Tell us about that.
>>MUTER: Yep.
So we all have
cancers inside of us.
We all have heart
disease inside.
We all have every possible thing
to die of already inside of us
at the DNA or
mitochondrial or even lower
levels of your genetic makeup.
And when we live, there
are certain things
that are going to be triggering
these things to turn on.
So predis-- predispositions.
Sorry.
I do stumble over my
words, so you're just--
>>REGINA: Oh, you're just fine.
Go ahead.
>>MUTER: And it will
trigger those things.
So maybe it's environmental
and maybe it's biological
within your body.
>>REGINA: Or emotional.
>>MUTER: Or emotional.
But you're going to
trigger something
that is going to onset the
length and this expiration
date.
It's not wrong.
You didn't do anything wrong.
It's just what happened.
So let's say that
you were a smoker,
and you smoked for 30 years,
and you never got lung cancer.
And you're fine.
Your lungs were--
you quit smoking,
and everything-- you started
healing and it looked better.
And then 10 years later,
you went to a concert
and there was smoke everywhere.
For some reason, that smoke,
that secondhand smoke out
there, triggered the lung
cancer that had already
been developing environmentally,
that never showed up
while you were smoking.
But all you needed is
one more hit of smoke.
>>REGINA: Well, it
wasn't time yet.
>>MUTER: It just
But now it is, and there it is.
>>REGINA: It's a
more gracious way
of looking at life, to be able
to understand these things.
And like you say,
just stop fighting it.
Enjoy your life.
And that doesn't mean
extreme, indulgent, woohoo!
You drive 120 with a
blindfold on while I'm
smoking, or taking, or
drinking, or whatever.
It doesn't mean that.
It just means
living a good life,
living a life without fear.
So now let's talk
about the recipe
phase of when disease
is developing,
because you have a really--
you see it, and you
have an interesting way
of working with people and
explaining things to them.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
So for me, it looks like
a garden in a sense.
This is making it as
very simple as I can.
Pretty much, when I look out
and see absolutely everything
in front of me, including us
sitting here at the table,
we're part of this
incredible tapestry.
And your tapestry is
right here, but it's
part of this giant thing.
And below the tapestry is--
I'm going to call the soil.
And the soil is pretty
much everything that's
going on behind the scenes.
So it's all this matrices and it
looks like geometric movement,
and it's just glorious
underneath there.
And inside this soil--
so underneath the top
tapestry where we're sitting
is when I see illness
or when I see something
that's starting to come up.
I can see it grow
just as a plant.
So when you see a
plant start growing
and you can see the
little roots coming out
and you can kind of see
when the stem is coming up.
And then during that
time, you can kind of
mute what's going
to be happening.
Now, if this is what
you're dying of,
there's nothing we're going
to be able to do to stop it.
>>REGINA: But if it's if--
>>MUTER: If it's just
something that's happening,
we can mute and
retard that growth
so it's not becoming
all over the place,
and it's not taking
over, and it's not
going to knock you out for
weeks or months or whatever.
But once it comes up and
it starts sprouting--
so now imagine it's
broken through the soil,
and now it's
starting to sprout--
then there's other
things that we can do.
But we can reduce it, again.
We can-- it's almost like
mowing it down or chopping it
or whatever it looks like.
But that doesn't take
the root system away.
It's just taking the very--
>>REGINA: Manifestation
and symptoms away.
Yeah.
And so what happens
when you see someone
where you know this
is forming, this
is also what you're
going to die from?
>>MUTER: Well, I
don't tell them.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: That's what I was
assuming you wouldn't do.
There's no reason.
>>MUTER: The reason
why I don't do that
and I don't give timelines
when I talk to people
is because I don't want
to set expectations.
I want them to be able to
live and go through life
and allow life to unfold
before them as it should,
because that helps
create and keep
this harmony of their lifespan.
It creates this unique--
for me, it's magic.
For us to be able to live here
and experience and do things,
it is magic, and it's unfolding.
Whether it's good or bad,
we get to be a part of this.
And the second you have somebody
telling you when and giving you
a timeline, you stop seeing
the magic, and you stop--
the hope kind of snuffs out.
Because we have in this
culture, in Western society,
puts such a stigma on
the final, on the finale
that it snuffs out hope.
And so that's not good.
>>REGINA: That's not good.
And I assumed you
would say that.
And I think that
seems to me to be
the kind of ethically
gracious thing to do.
And yet, you can still
help people work with it.
>>MUTER: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Like you say,
ameliorate some of the symptoms
and some of the
suffering and all that
without knowing what the
outcome's going to be.
That's perfectly legitimate.
>>MUTER: And if
someone is-- they do
know they're passing--
maybe they're in hospice
or they did get walking
papers, I also work with them
and help them in the
transition phase,
and also help their families
in the transition phase.
Because so many
times, I have actually
dealt with people that have
had a loved one pass away,
and someone had told them, if
you pray hard enough, if you
do this, if you do that.
And that person is saying, well,
if you do this and you do this,
you do this, then you
don't have to die of this.
And what a disservice
it's doing, because then
the survivors, number one, feel
like they weren't good enough.
And also the person
who passed away,
their last moments were
feeling, I wasn't good enough.
I obviously didn't do something.
And that's just very sad.
>>REGINA: That's very sad.
Here's one.
Now, I think you were
a little bit older.
"Dear Flower Lady--" this
one is about mirrors, so--
>>MUTER: I must
have been 12 or 13.
>>REGINA: 12 or 13.
OK.
"I think there may be a reason
we cannot see our own face
without a mirror.
I believe that we're
not meant to focus
on ourselves superficially.
We're part of a canvas.
When there isn't a mirror,
we can walk into a room
and forget ourselves.
But with a mirror, people
tend to fuss about their hair.
They apologize
for how they look.
They worry about their clothes.
They become a thing.
Imagine if mirrors
were actually windows
to the landscape outside
with the Earth and the trees,
with the lunar moths and with
the butterflies and the apple
trees, with the rains
and lightning and the sun
kissing the horizon.
If that is what people
saw in the mirror,
they would feel beautiful.
They would feel part of
life, part of the hum.
There is a reason we
don't see our own faces,
because we're already
beautiful, and we're already
part of life."
And yet, how fixated are
we on looking in the mirror
these days?
Missing all the rest of it
that you're talking about.
That was beautiful.
And because we just
have a little time left,
I just want to say the
things you wrote on
DNA were amazing, because they
were way ahead of their time.
You were talking about
the DNA inside of DNA.
You also wrote on cancer and
that you saw in your mind
that there will be a day
when a cancer cell can almost
be changed from the inside.
>>MUTER: Correct.
>>REGINA: And these
things have started
coming to pass in
the world of science,
but you were seeing this
decades ahead of this.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
I started writing
about biotechnologies
in the late 1970s.
And really, if you look at
the first cancer biotechnology
experiments that we
had going on were right
around 1998 or in 1989.
One of those.
[LAUGHS]
And what I wrote
about was literally
being able to turn
on and off proteins.
And then I also talked about--
before I got to
the proteins, being
able to turn on
and off proteins,
I also thought,
you know, is there
a way that we could put
a virus inside and have
the virus kill the cancer?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MUTER: So we have two of
these things that I wrote about
and I spoke about,
and now we have
two of these things that
are really on the forefront
right now of cancer research.
>>REGINA: Which is amazing.
But again, the place you go to
is the place that has access.
>>MUTER: Correct.
>>REGINA: Infinite access.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
And I remember
showing my friend,
my oncologist friend
was actually with me
when we were unburying--
unearthing the letters, and
we started reading these.
And I remember for me,
it all makes sense.
For me it's not like, oh, this
is profound, because it just
kind of all makes sense.
But when he started reading
about mitochondrial DNA and--
>>REGINA: That you were
writing about at, like, 13.
>>MUTER: Yeah.
And the first time I wrote
about mitochondrial DNA,
I think I was seven.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's true.
That's in here.
>>MUTER: And he started also
reading about different ways
that we can combat
cancers and we
can combat different things
like dementias and things
like that, like Alzheimer's
by being able to turn
on and off different proteins.
And he was just astounded.
He said--
>>REGINA: Here it is.
We're here now.
>>MUTER: Amazing.
>>REGINA: Well, and so, why not?
Let science flourish.
Let us be comfortable.
Let us live every
moment of life.
But don't think that we are
going to circumvent our soul's
own plan for
ourselves, and I think
that's an important message.
Yes, we can be more
comfortable, but may it all
be like your dad.
Have a nice, long swim
in his Jack LaLanne body,
and boom, lie down and die.
I love it.
That's perfect.
And what a wild story that is.
I just so appreciate you
sharing that with us.
We didn't get to some of
the other really interesting
things.
There's a lot more
in the DNA story.
There's a lot that
you understand
about parallel realities
and such and our living
in parallel realities,
streams of the same thing
at the same time.
So much more that we'll
have you back repeatedly
to continue the story with you.
So I just wanted
everyone to have a chance
to get to know you.
>>MUTER: Oh, [LAUGHS]
thank you very much.
It's been so nice being here.
And if I could just tell
people watching this--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MUTER: --I would love
to be able to tell people
that you are enough
just as you are,
and there's nothing
you need to change.
You're absolutely
stunning and beautiful.
>>REGINA: And it's
not a bumper sticker.
You mean it.
>>MUTER: I really do.
>>REGINA: Looking at
it from all dimensions,
of all the iterations of you
that exist now, we're enough.
>>MUTER: We are enough.
>>REGINA: Thank you
for that, and that's
very encouraging to people.
And you're just a light
and an inspiration,
but also a vast wealth of
information we haven't even
begun to tap yet, so thank you.
Now, you have another
book coming out too.
>>MUTER: I do.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MUTER: The book that will
be coming out very soon
actually is called "Inside:
Past Life Connections."
And it actually talks
about how past lives work
and how we can actually
access and tap into them.
And how past life therapies
are actually helping us today,
but not necessarily
the way you think
that they are helping us today.
And then soon after that,
so a few weeks later,
I'm going to have
a book on what is
parallel existences
and parallel lives,
and how all of these
ideas actually work off
of the same premises,
which is there
is nobody connected to the
other side of the veil closer
than you.
That means no one knows the
other side of the veil closer
than you, and you have
direct access to it.
And we can find ways
to open that up.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
I'm looking forward to it.
I've already read part of
one, and you're a very clear,
pristine writer, so thank you.
Obviously, I'm an
admirer of your work.
>>MUTER: [LAUGHS] Thank you.
>>REGINA: Thank
you so much, Maren.
Until next time.
You can pick up Maren's
"Book of Buried Letters"
at Amazon and other booksellers,
along with the new work
we just discussed.
I think we'll be
seeing a lot of Maren
in the future as a shining
light in a very confused world.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]